>[!note] Proof by Contraposition
>A proof by contraposition is a logical argument that establishes the truth of a given [[1.2 Implication|implication]] $P \implies Q$ by assuming the truth of the negation of the conclusion $\neg Q$, and demonstrating that the negation of the hypothesis $\neg P$ necessarily follows, such that
>$$\neg Q \implies \neg P.$$

# Examples
>[!example] Let $n$ be a positive integer and let $d$ divide $n$. If $n$ is odd, then $d$ is odd.
>We proceed by contraposition; it is easier to prove that if $d$ is even, then $n$ is even, since any even number is a multiple of $2$. We proceed by expressing $d$ as $d=2k$ for some $k \in \mathbb{Z}$. Because $d \mid n$, then $n=qd$ for some $q \in \mathbb{Z}$. When we substitute for $d$, $n=2(qk)$, which is definitely even since it is divisible by $2$. Since the contraposition holds, so does the original statement.

>[!example] If $a^2$ is even, then $a$ is even.
>We proceed by contraposition. Since $a$ is odd, it can be expressed as $2q+1$ for some quotient $q$. Then, $a^2$ can be expressed as $a^2=4q^2+4q+1=2(2q^2+2q)+1$. Since $2(2q^2+2q)$ is a multiple of $2$, it is clearly even. However, when we add $1$ to it it clearly becomes odd. Therefore, $a^2$ is also odd.

>[!example] *(Pigeonhole Principle)* Let $n,k \in \mathbb{Z}^+$. Place $n$ objects into $k$ boxes. If $n > k$, then at least one box must contain multiple objects.
>We proceed by contraposition. If all boxes contain exactly one object, then the number of objects is at most equal to the number of boxes, such that $n \leq k$.
