> [!note] Labor Supply Function
> The willingness for agents to provide labor in exchange for wages can be expressed as
> $$\frac{W}{P}=\frac{P_E}{P}z,$$
> where $\frac{W}{P}$ is the real wage, $\frac{P_E}{P}$ is the real expected price of goods over the worker's contract, and $z$ is the reservation wage (the income workers would receive if they were not working).

# Intuition
In  labor supply, there are two conflicting processes happening at the same time. Suppose a firm is offering work at an increased wage $W_2 > W_1$. Then,
1. The opportunity cost of leisure time has gone up. This means that now workers lose more money when they choose to spend leisure time as opposed to work. This is known as the ***substitution effect.***
2. However, since the wage has gone up, those workers now feel richer. As such, they would like to spend more leisure time in order to enjoy their material earnings. This is known as the ***income effect***.

Generally, at lower income levels, the substitution effect dominates over the income effect, and vice-versa. This could be represented on a backwards-bending supply curve:
```tikz
\begin{document}
	\begin{tikzpicture}
	\draw[->] (0, 0) -- (4, 0) node[right]{$N$};
	\draw[->] (0, 0) -- (0, 4) node[above]{$W$};
	\draw[-] (1.5, 0.5) arc (330:390:8 and 3);
	\draw[dashed] (4, 2) -- (0, 2) node[left]{$\bar{W}$};
	\draw[->, thick] (3.25, 1.75) -- (3.25, 0.25) node[midway, right, align=left]{Substitution\\Effect};
	\draw[->, thick] (3.25, 2.25) -- (3.25, 3.75) node[midway, right, align=left]{Income\\Effect};
	\end{tikzpicture}
\end{document}
```
The critical wage level $\bar{W}$ represents the wage value at which the income and substitution effects are equal in magnitude and cancel out. This is because **Ricardian equivalence** states that when wages rise, there is often little change in the labor supplied by workers. On the other hand, if employment fluctuates substantially, wages will only move a little, although in the same direction. This contradiction depends on the elasticity of the labor supply curve:
1. Low elasticity of labor supply along the intensive margin indicates that a change in wages will not change labor supply significantly.
2. High elasticity of labor supply along the extensive margin indicates that a small change in wages will lead to a proportional large change in labor supply induced by new agents entering the workforce.

In ECON 101B, it is regarded that when wages change, labor supply proportionally changes too.

Another aspect to consider is expected prices. Usually, people consider prices when looking at wages, since it is purchasing power that matters and not nominal wages. As such, a worker should only about the economy's expected price $P_E$ over the duration of their contract.

Finally, one should consider the attractiveness of unemployment benefits in the economy, known as the reservation wage $z$. If unemployment benefits are increased, then labor supply will decrease as more workers find it less lucrative to hold a job. Note here that the ==reservation wage includes all of unemployment benefits, even those that you receive when you have a job== (like health insurance in some countries).

Then, one could write the labor supply condition as
$$W=P_Ef(N_S, z)$$
where $f(\cdot)$ is an any increasing function. This states that given price expectations and reservation wage, wages and labor supply both increase. If expected prices increase, so will a worker's wage. If the reservation wage increases, so will the worker's wage. 

If we now supposed that the elasticity of labor supply was infinite (meaning that workers always want to supply labor), then we may take $N_S$ out of the equation. This leaves us with
$$W=P_Ez \iff \frac{W}{P}=\frac{P_E}{P}z.$$
At this equilibrium, it is equivalently lucrative to work as opposed to be unemployed. If, however, $\frac{W}{P}>\frac{P_E}{P}z$, then it is more lucrative to work as opposed to being unemployed, and vice-versa.

We can now plot the labor supply curve as follows:
```tikz
\begin{document}
	\begin{tikzpicture}
	\draw[->] (0, 0) -- (4, 0) node[right]{$N$};
	\draw[->] (0, 0) -- (0, 4) node[above]{$\frac{W}{P}$};
	\draw[thick] (0, 2) -- (4, 2) node[right]{$\bar{L_S}$};
	\draw[->, thick] (2, 2.25) -- (2, 2.75) node[midway, right]{$P_E \uparrow$ or $z \uparrow$ or $P \downarrow$};
	\draw[] (0, 3) -- (4, 3) node[right]{$\bar{L_S}$};
	\end{tikzpicture}
\end{document}
```
