>[!note] Labor Demand Function
>We can express labor demand as a function,
>$$\frac{W}{P}=L_D(\mu^-, A^+, K^+, N^-),$$
>where $\mu$ is the degree of monopoly/competitiveness, $A$ is, $K$ is the stock of capital, and $N$ is the amount of labor employed.
# Intuition
Consider a firm which models output using the [[6-8 Cobb-Douglas Production Function|Cobb-Douglas production function]]. Consider that this firm's demand curve is $P=Y^{-\frac{\mu}{1+\mu}}$, where $0 < \mu < 1$ is the degree of monopoly in the firm's market (if $\mu \to 0$, then the market approaches perfect competition, and if $\mu > 0$, then there the firm has some degree of monopoly power in the market). Finally, consider that the firm has a profit function $\Pi = P \times Y - W \times N (-R \times K)$, which is the difference between total revenue and total co sts (we omit the rental price of capital to simplify the equation).

Plugging in the demand curve for the price into the profit equation leads to
$$\Pi=Y^{\frac{\mu}{1+\mu}}-WN.$$
Basic microeconomic theory tells us that the optimal profit-maximizing condition is 
$MR=MC$. In other words, a firm is at its profit-maximizing state when producing 1 more unit leads to 0 marginal profit. As such, we need to evaluate marginal revenue (revenue of one additional unit of output) and marginal cost (cost of one additional unit of output). Using simple calculus, since total revenue is given by $PY=Y^{\frac{\mu}{1+\mu}}$, and total cost is given by $WN$, marginal revenue will equal (in dollars per unit of output)
$$MR=\left(\frac{1}{1+\mu}\right)Y^{-\frac{\mu}{1+\mu}}$$
whereas marginal costs (in dollars times workers per unit of output) will equal the inverse of the marginal product of labor (in units of output per worker) times wage (in dollars). The marginal product of labor is the partial derivative of the firm's production function with respect to labor, $MP_N=(1-\alpha)AK^\alpha N^{-\alpha}$. Therefore,
$$MC=W\frac{1}{MP_N}=\frac{W}{(1-\alpha)AK^\alpha N^{-\alpha}}$$
Finally, since $MR=MC$ is the profit-maximizing condition, plugging in marginal revenue leads to
$$P=(1+\mu)MC$$
which says that optimal price always has a markup of $\mu$ over marginal cost. In perfect competition, this markup will be $0$, and so the price for every additional unit will equal its cost to produce.

Plugging in for marginal cost and rearranging leads us to
$$\frac{W}{P}=\left(\frac{1-\alpha}{1+\mu}\right)AK^\alpha N^{-\alpha}$$
Note that since the exponent on $N$ is negative, this firm will want to hire less workers the higher the real wage is. Graphically, we can interpret the labor demand curve as
```tikz
\begin{document}
   \begin{tikzpicture}[domain=0:4]
    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (4.2,0) node[right]{$Y$};
    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (0,4.2) node[above]{$r$};
    \draw[]  (0.5,3.5) -- (4, 0.5) node[right]{$L_D'$};
    \draw[]  (0.5,2.5) -- (3, 0.5) node[below]{$L_D$};
   \end{tikzpicture}
\end{document}
```
We achieve $L'_D$ if:
1. Total factor productivity $A$ or capital $K$ rise, since workers become more productive.
2. The monopoly factor $\mu$ decreases, since this raises competition and calls for higher levels of production (and therefore labor).
3. Amount of workers $N$ decreases, since less workers means bigger competition among firms and better offerings for workers.
