>[!note] Taylor Principle
>The Taylor principle states that if inflation ($\pi$) increases by 1%, nominal interest rates ($i$) should increase by more than 1% so that the change in the real interest rate is positive. Mathematically, at time $t$,
>$$r_t=\phi_\pi \pi_t + \phi_y y_t + C$$
>for coefficients $\phi_\pi,\phi_y$, inflation rate $\pi_t$, [[4.2b.2 Natural Rate of Output and the Output Gap|output gap]] $y_t$, and a constant $C$.
# Intuition
Suppose that there was a supply shock due to increased inflation expectation, which forced aggregate supply to shift up since workers demand higher wages. Then, policy makers can respond in two ways:
1. Bring output back to natural level and ignore prices, shifting the AD curve right by increasing the money supply and therefore inflation.
2. Try to bring prices back down and ignore output, shifting the AD curve left by reducing the supply of money at the cost of even lower output.
```tikz
\begin{document}
	\begin{tikzpicture}
	    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (5,0) node[right]{$Y$};
	    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (0,5) node[above]{$P$};
	    \draw[-] (2.75,0) -- (2.75,5) node[above]{$LRAS$} node[at start, below]{$Y_N$};
	    \draw[dashed] (1,1) -- (4.5,4.5) node[right]{$SRAS'$};
	    \draw[dashed, color=green] (1,4.5) -- (4.5,1) node[right]{$AD'$};
	    \draw[] (0.3,3.8) -- (3.8,0.3) node[right]{$AD$};
	    \draw[] (1.9,0.5) -- (5.4, 4) node[right]{$SRAS$};
	    \draw[dotted] (2.5,1.25) -- (0, 1.25) node[left]{$P_{0}$};
	    \draw[<-, color=green, line width=1.5] (2.75, 2.8) -- (2, 2);
	\end{tikzpicture}
	\begin{tikzpicture}
	    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (5,0) node[right]{$Y$};
	    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (0,5) node[above]{$P$};
	    \draw[-] (2.75,0) -- (2.75,5) node[above]{$LRAS$} node[at start, below]{$Y_N$};
	    \draw[dashed] (1,1) -- (4.5,4.5) node[right]{$SRAS'$};
	    \draw[] (0.3,3.8) -- (3.8,0.3) node[right]{$AD$};
	    \draw[color=green, dashed] (0.3,2.3) -- (2.3,0.3) node[right]{$AD'$};
	    \draw[] (1.9,0.5) -- (5.4, 4) node[right]{$SRAS$};
	    \draw[dotted] (2.5,1.25) -- (0, 1.25) node[left]{$P_{0}$};
	    \draw[->, color=green, line width=1.5] (2, 2) -- (1.3, 1.3);
	\end{tikzpicture}
\end{document}
```
3. Implement supply-side policies that shift the aggregate supply curve:
	- Deregulation of markets ($\mu \downarrow$).
	- De-unionization: lower costs to hiring/firing workers ($MP_N \uparrow$ since ).
	- Cutting corporate income taxes ($\mu \downarrow$ since taxes are a bigger burden to smaller firms).
	- Cutting income taxes ($L_S \downarrow$ since people are more incentivized to work and provide labor at a lower cost).

Option 1 is bad for the economy, since inflation expectations are met with actual higher inflation, no matter what prompted the increase in expected inflation in the first place. This gives rise to **sun-spot equilibrium***, which means that the increased expected inflation is not triggered by anything in the economy, but by animal spirits.

Option 2 means that higher inflation expectations are met with elevated nominal interest rates, thereby reducing consumption and investment, and, in turn, inflationary pressures. Note that option 2 only holds if nominal interest rates increase more than inflation. This is because by the [[Fisher equation]], we know that if nominal interest rates increase more than the inflation rate, so does the real interest rate.


