>[!note] Dynamic/Time Inconsistency
>Dynamic inconsistency is a situation in which the optimal plan of a policy-maker made at one point in time is no longer optimal later in time.

# Intuition
Suppose the central bank chooses to lower money supply to keep prices stable after a supply shock. This ramps up the nominal interest rate, and by the [[5.4 Supply Shocks and the Taylor Principle|Taylor principle]]--the real interest rate. However, the central bank may say that it will be tough on inflation, but may fail to deliver on that stance once the time comes if it is not beneficial to the economy at that given time.

Let's formalize this given the central bank's loss function $L(\pi)=\pi^2+\lambda(U-\bar{U})^2$, and the [[Phillips curve]], $U=U_N-(\pi-\pi_E)$. Combining the two, we get $L(\pi)=\pi^2+\lambda(U_N-\bar{U}-(\pi-\pi_E))^2$. Note that here $\bar{U}$ is the target unemployment for the central bank, and $\lambda$ is the weight of the deviation of unemployment from the target. We can illustrate a few cases for the central bank:
1. ***Commitment:*** Suppose that the central bank wants to commit to zero inflation (its target inflation). If agents trust this promise, and the target inflation is reached ($\pi_E=\bar{\pi}=0$), then the central bank's loss is $L(\bar{\pi}=0)=\lambda(U-\bar{U})^2$ after plugging in the Phillips curve. Is this sustainable? Here, the central bank has convinced agents, so $\pi_E=0$. However, since we want to minimize the loss function of the central bank,
$$\pi_{C}^*=\left(\frac{\lambda}{1+\lambda}\right)(U_N-\bar{U}).$$
Realizing a zero inflation rate can only occur when $\lambda \to 0$ or $\bar{U} \to U_N$. The first case may be realized by ==giving more independence to the central bank==, as then the weight of unemployment deviation is decreased without political pressure to decrease unemployment. It may also be realized by ==employing "hawkish" central bankers, who only focus on managing inflation==.

2. ***Discretion:*** the central bank may choose to diverge from its commitment of zero inflation for the better of the economy. While that undermines the central bank's credibility, it may be sustainable. Minimizing loss,
$$\pi_{D}^*=\lambda(U_N-\bar{U}-\pi_{D}^*+\pi_E)$$
Since under rational expectations $\pi_D^*=\pi_E$,
$$\pi_D^*=\lambda(U_N-\bar{U}) \implies L(\pi_D^*)=\lambda^2(U_N-\bar{U})^2+\lambda(U_N-\bar{U})^2$$
Therefore, this outcome has a higher inflation than zero, and a higher loss function than in the case of commitment, but the same unemployment rate. After the central bank has convinced agents of zero inflation, it "cheats" by deviating from its promise


