>[!note] Strategic Dominance
>**Strategic dominance** in game theory occurs when there is a certain single strategy $s_i' \in S_i$ for a player $i \in N$ that is the [[3.2b.1 Best Response|best response]] for any combination of other players' strategies $s_{-i}$. There are two cases in which this happens:
>- Strategy $s_i'$ **strongly dominates** all other strategies $s_i$ of player $i$ if the payoff of $s_i'$ is *strictly greater* than all of $i$'s other strategies $s_i$ for some strategies of other players $s_{-i}$, such that
>$$u_i(s_i', s_{-i}) > u_i(s_i, s_{-i}).$$
>- Strategy $s_i'$ **weakly dominates** another strategy $s_i^\# \in S_i$ if it does at least as well as $s_i^\#$ for all possible strategies of other players $s_{-i}$, and does better than $s_i^\#$ for certain strategies $\hat{s}_{-i}$ of the other players, such that
>$$\begin{equation}\begin{aligned}u_i(s_i', s_{-i}) &\geq u_i(s_i^\#, s_{-i}) && \text{for all $s_{-i}$}  \\ u_i(s_i', \hat{s}_{-i}) &> u_i(s_i', \hat{s}_{-i}) && \text{for some } \hat{s}_{-i}\end{aligned}\end{equation}$$
>
>A strategy profile to a game in which each player is using their dominant strategy is said to be a **dominant strategy solution**.

# Intuition
Strategic dominance follows the principle of rational choice. Obviously, considering the other players' strategies, one will choose that strategy which puts them at the best position possible. 
- Strongly dominant strategies can be interpreted as strategies that are the only rational response of a player $i$ in a game.
- Weakly dominant strategies can be interpreted as a set of rational strategies that can be used as a best response depending on the other players' strategies.
Here, it is important to note that ==not all games have dominant strategies==.

Let's now look at the solvability of dominance. pg 69-71 (Optional?)

# Examples
>[!example] EASY: Dominant Strategy in Auctions
>Suppose you want to buy a painting of Renoir. You value it at $300,000, meaning this is the true valuation that you give the painting. Then, the rules of game theory dictate that actively bidding until $300,000 and either giving up or winning the auction is the dominant strategy. Consider the other two cases:
>- Suppose you set yourself a lowball limit of $250,000. Then, bidding either continues above your true price of $300,000, or somebody wins the auction with a bid of $270,000. In that case, you're bummed, since you could've gotten a sweet painting for less than it's worth to you.
>- Suppose now you overextended yourself and decide to bid until $350,000. Then, either somebody saves you by bidding higher, or you win the auction. However, you're still bummed, since you are now stuck with a painting that you paid more for than you think is worth.

>[!example] MEDIUM: Electing the UN Secretary-General
>See pg. 68

