>[!note] RISC-V Calling Convention
>In RISC-V, there are some rules which the programmer is advised to follow. The following are rules for callee-saved registers (registers saved by the function being called):
>1. The register `x2` is reserved as a "stack pointer" (sp), and points to the bottom of the stack. Data above `x2` is (technically) immutable, and `x2` can be decremented during a function call to allocate more space on the stack if its value is returned back to its pre-function call value after the call.
>2. The registers `s0` to `s11` are "saved" registers, meaning that just as `x2`, they need to be restored at the end of the function call. We can do so using `sw s0 0(sp)` in the beginning of the function, and `lw s0 0(sp)` towards the end.
>
>
>The following are caller-saved registers (saved and restored by the function that is calling):
>1. The register `x1` (aka `ra`) is reserved as the register to store return addresses in . There are two pseudoinstructions, `jal label` and `ret` (`ja label`), which assume `x1` as the return address.
>2. The registers `a0` to `a7` are registers used for function arguments, and `a0` and `a1` can alsobe used for return values.
>3. If a function needs more than 8 arguments, the temporary registers `t0` to `t6` can be used as addresses.
>
>The following are miscellaneous registers:
>1. The register `x0` always stores 0/0x0.
>8. The register `x3` is the "global pointer", used to store a reference on the heap.
>9. The register `x4` is the "thread pointer," used to separate stacks for threads.

# Examples
>[!example] Callee-Saved Registers

>[!example] Caller-Saved Registers

