>[!note] Aggregate Savings Function
>The supply of savings can be determined using the function
>$$S(Y^+, T^+, CS^-, G^-, r^+)=Y-C(Y-T, CS, r)-G$$
>where $Y$ is output, $C(\cdot)$ is [[1.6 Aggregate Consumption|aggregate consumption]], and $G$ is government spending.

# Intuition
We can split savings into private savings and public savings:
- **Private savings** $S_p=Y-T-C$  include all of after-tax income minus consumption of agents and firms.
- **Public savings** $S_g=T-G$ is the difference between tax revenues and government spending.
Therefore, total savings $S=S_p+S_g=(Y-T-C)+(T-G)=Y-C-G$. 

>[!warning] 
>Note here that total savings does not directly depend on taxes. However, to the extent that changes in taxes can indirectly affect agents' output $Y$ or consumption $C$, **total saving will change with exogenous changes in taxes**.

Now, we can describe $C$ as a function of aggregate consumption $C=C(Y-T, CS, r)$ to get the final equation:
$$S=Y-C(Y-T, CS,r)-G$$
Recall that $CS$ raises consumption and $r$ lowers it, whereas $Y-T$ as a whole raises it when everything else is kept constant. Therefore, $CS$ should lower savings, while $T$ and $r$ should aise it. $Y$ can directly raise savings but also increases consumption. We can plot consumption against the interest rate below:
```tikz
\begin{document}
  \begin{tikzpicture}[domain=0:4]
    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (4.2,0) node[right]{$S$};
    \draw[->] (0,0) -- (0,4.2) node[above]{$r$};
    \draw[] (0.5,0.5) -- (4, 3.5) node[above]{$S(Y, T, CS, G, r)$};
   \end{tikzpicture}
\end{document}
```
Note that an upwards slope also indicates the positive relationship between savings and the interest rate.