>[!note] B-Type Instruction
>The B-type (branch) [[2.4a Instruction Format|format]] is designed for the conditional [[2.1b Conditional Operations|branch instructions]] that require two registers and a label. It follows the format:
>
| **31**  | **30-25** | **24-20** | **19-15** | **14-12** | **11-8** |  **7**  | **6-0** |
| :-----: | :-------: | :-------: | :-------: | :-------: | :------: | :-----: | :-----: |
| imm[12] | imm[10:5] |    rs2    |    rs1    |  funct3   | imm[4:1] | imm[11] | opcode  |
>where the instruction's label is stored as a 13-bit immediate offset multiple of 4 whose 0th bit is constant and is not stored since it is known (`imm[12:1]`). This way, we do not need additional infrastructure since we resemble the S-type and R-type's layout; more specifically, `imm[10:1]` is stored in the same manner as it is in the S-type. Finally, `imm[12]` holds the integer's sign and is most efficiently accessed at the beginning of the instruction.

# Intuition
Since the computer cannot recognize labels, we have to somehow convert them into offset immediates to store them. This is done by calculating the distance where a label has been called from the label itself. Consider the following code:
```
		beq x0 x0 target  #+2 instructions = 8 bytes, so offset=8

		addi x0 x0 100

target: addi x0 x0 100. # callee

		j target #-1 instruction = -4 bytes, so offset=-4

		li t0 0x5F3759DF #The li here is actually 2 instructions

		beq t0 t0 target #-4 instructions, so offset=-16**
```

Here, the offset at `beq x0 x0 target` is 8 bytes, since each instruction is 4 bytes and the line is 2 instructions away from the target label. Similarly, the offset at `beq t0 t0 target` is -16 bytes since the caller line is -4 lines "above" the target label.

Since evidently all label offsets are a multiple of 4, we must omit the last two (rightmost) bits. We can first verify this using a quick check: $4_{10}=0100_2$, $8_{10}=1000$. However, some 16-bit RISC-V operations use the 2nd bit, and as such, we only omit the rightmost bit.
