>[!note] Strong Induction
>Strong induction extends [[2.5a Simple Induction|simple induction]] by using an induction induction hypothesis which makes the stronger assumption that $P(0), P(1), \ldots, P(k)$ are all true.

# Understanding
Between simple and strong induction, one is not more or less powerful than the other. Recall that we mentioned that in simple induction, if the $k$-th domino falls, so does the $(k+1)$-th. In strong induction, if dominoes $1$ through $k$ fall, so does the $(k+1)$-th.

However, strong induction can greatly help out in certain cases. 

# Examples
>[!example] Prove that for every $n \in \mathbb{N}$ where $n \geq 12$, there exist $x,y \in \mathbb{N}$ such that $n=4x+5y$
>We proceed by *weak* induction on $n$ first. We must start with a few base cases:
>- $n=12$: $12=4 \cdot 3 + 5 \cdot 0$
>- $n=13$: $13=4 \cdot 2 + 5 \cdot 1$
>- $n=14$: $14=4 \cdot 1 + 5 \cdot 2$
>- $n=15$: $15=4 \cdot 0 + 5 \cdot 3$.
>
>Since the theorem holds for the first 4 cases, we may proceed by with the inductive step by assuming our hypothesis; that $k=4x+5y$ holds for any $k \geq 15$:
>$$n=k+1=4x+5y+1=4(x-1)+5(y+1).$$
>As such, $k+1=4x'+5y'$ where $x'=x-1$ and $y'=y+1$.
>
>We can also utilize strong induction for our inductive hypothesis. Assume that for some $k \geq 15$, the statement $n=4x+5y$ holds for all $n$ such that $12 \leq n \leq k$. How will we show that the statement holds for $n=k+1$? Since $k \geq 15$, we know that $k+1 \geq 16$ and $(k+1)-4 \geq 12$. By the inductive hypothesis, there exist some $x',y' \in \mathbb{N}$ for which 
>$$(k+1)-4=4x'+5y'.$$
>We see that for the values of

>[!example] Prove that for every $n \in \mathbb{N}$ such that $n > 1$ can be written as a product of one or more primes
>We proceed by induction on $n$:
>- *Base case ($n=2$):* $2$ is a prime number so the base case holds.
>- *Hypothesis:* Assume that the statement holds for naturals $n$ up to $k$, such that $2 \leq n \leq k$.
>- *Step:* We must prove that either $k+1$ is either a prime number, or can be written as a product of primes:
>	1. Since $k+1$ is prime, it is a product of itself, and we're done.
>	2. If $k+1$ is not prime, it can be written as $k+1=a \cdot b$ for some naturals $0 < a,b \leq k + 1$, which are assumed by the inductive hypothesis to be able to be written as a product of primes. *This is because any composite number has at least 3 factors (some perfect squares such as 4)*.
>
>As such, we have proved using strong induction that the theorem holds.

